Links: 
___
# Some Terms and Definitions
1. **System:** The part of the universe being observed.  
	1. *Open System:* System can exchange mass and energy (heat or work) with surroundings. 
	
	2. *Closed System:* System can exchange only energy with surroundings. No mass can be exchanged. 
	
	3. *Isolated System:* System cannot exchange mass nor energy with the surroundings. No system is truly isolated. Universe is the only true isolated system.
	   
	$\\$
1. **Surrounding:** The part of universe other than system which affects the system or is affected by it. 
	$\\$

1. **Boundary:** Which separates the system and surrounding. It may be real or imaginary, may be rigid ($\Delta V = 0$) or flexible ($\Delta V \neq 0$), may be diathermic or adiabatic.
	   - *Diathermic* allows heat transfer rapidly.
	   - *Adiabatic* does not allow heat transfer rapidly.
	 $\\$

3. **Thermodynamic Equilibrium:** Establishment of thermal (same temp.), mechanical ($P_{sys} = P_{sur}$) and chemical (no. net reaction) equilibriums.

#### Properties of System
1. **Extensive Properties:** Which depend upon the size of the sample. I.e. value of property changes when system is divided into smaller parts. 
   E.g. Mass, Volume, Heat Capacity (C), Internal Energy (U), Enthalpy (H), Gibbs Free Energy (G), Entropy (S) etc.
   $\\$

2. **Intensive Property:** Which do not depend upon the size of the sample. 
   E.g. Temp., Pressure, Molar Enthalpy, Molar Energy, Density, pH, emf of cell, refractive index, Viscosity, Concentration terms, etc.
	   - Ratio of 2 extensive properties is an intensive property. E.g. Density. 

If an extensive property is defined *per gram or per mole* it becomes intensive.

#### State Function and Path Function
##### State Function ($\phi$)
Which depends only on the current state of the system and is independent of the path or previous state.

E.g. Temperature, Volume, Pressure, Internal Energy, Enthalpy, Gibbs Free Energy, Entropy etc. 

- It can be extensive or intensive. 
- Change in state function b/w two states is a definite quantity. 
  $$\Delta \phi = \int_{1}^{2} d\phi = \phi_{2} - \phi_{1}$$
- For cyclic process $\Delta$(state function) = 0
  $$\oint d\phi = 0$$

##### Path Function
Which depend on the path followed. I.e. on initial, final and path followed.

E.g. Work, Heat, Molar Heat Capacity.
