Links: [[00 Matrix]]
___
# Properties of Matrix Multiplication and Some PTR
- If the product of two matrices is defined, then they are called *conformable for Multiplication.*
  $\\$
  
- In general, $AB \neq BA$
- If A and B are n square matrix, and 
	- if $AB = BA$, then A,B are said to *commute*
	- if $AB = -BA$, then A,B are said to *anti-commute*
  $\\$
  
- $(\lambda A)B = \lambda(AB) = A(\lambda B)$
- $A(B+C) = AB + AC$
- $A(BC)= (AB)C \neq ACB$
  $\\$
  
- $AO = OA = O$
- $AI = IA = A$
  $\\$
  
- $AB = O \centernot\implies A=O\; or\; B=O$. 
  If $AB = O$, then A and B are called *divisors of O.*
- $AB = AC \centernot\implies B = C$
- $AB- AC = O \centernot\implies A = O\ or\ B = C$
  $\\$
  
- $|AB| = |BA| = |A| \times |B|$, if A and B are square matrices of order n.
- $|O| = 0$ if O is square matrix.
- $|I| = 1$ if I is square matrix.
  $\\$
  
- If both AB and BA are defined, then $tr(AB) = tr(BA)$, even if their orders are not the same. 
- If A, B, C are n square matrices, then $tr(ABC) = tr(CBA) = tr(ACB)$
  $\\$
  
- $O^{k} = O$
- $I^{k} = I$
- If A is non zero matrix, then $A^{0} = I$
- If $A^{2}= A$, then $A^{n}= A$.  
- $O^{0}$ is undefined. 
- $|A^{n}| = |A|^{n}$



##### Product Scalar Multiple of I
If A, B are n square matrices, and $AB = \lambda I$ then, 
$$
\begin{split}
|AB| &= |\lambda I| \\
|A| |B| &= \lambda^{n}|I|,\ \lambda^{n} \neq 0 \\
|A|, |B| &= 0 \\
\end{split}
$$
Thus inverse of both will exist.

Pre-multiply by inverse of A,
$$
\begin{split}
AB &= \lambda I \\
A^{-1}AB &= \lambda A^{-1}I \\
B &= \lambda A^{-1} \\
\end{split}
$$

Now Post-multiply by A,
$$
\begin{split}
AB &= \lambda I \\
\\
\text{Thus,} \\
AB &= BA
\end{split}
$$
Thus if $AB = \lambda I$ and $\lambda \neq 0$, then A and B will commute. 

##### Polynomial
A square matrix is said to satisfy a polynomial expression, 
$$a_{n}x^{n} + a_{n-1}x^{n-1} + a_{n-2}x^{n-2} + \dots a_{1}x + a_{0}=0$$
If,
$$a_{n}A^{n} + a_{n-1}A^{n-1} + a_{n-2}A^{n-2} + \dots a_{1}A + a_{0}I = O$$

##### Product Zero
If A and B are square matrices of the same order, such that $AB = O$, then,
- If one of them is non-singular then the other will be null matrix. I.e. if A is invertible, then B is O.
  **Proof:**
> $$
> \begin{split}
> AB &= O \\
> A^{-1}A B &= O\\
> IB &= O\\
> B &= O
> \end{split}
> $$

- If both are non null, then both must be singular. i.e. $A,B \neq O$ and $AB = O$, then $|A| = 0\ \&\ |B| = 0$. This is because *if any one of them is non singular, then the other must be null matrix,* which is contradictory to what we are given and thus, both must be singular. 


##### Algebraic formula
If A and B are n square matrices, then,
$$(A+B)(A-B) \neq A^{2} - B^{2}$$
in general. To multiply, we multiply in order,
$$(A+B)(A-B) = A^{2} - AB + BA - B^{2}$$

Similarly,
$$(A+B)^{2} \neq A^{2} + B^{2} + 2AB$$
$$(A+B)^{2} = A^{2} + BA + AB + B^{2}$$

$$(A+B)^{3} = A^{3} + ABB + ABA + AAB + BAA + BAB + BBA + B^{3}$$

In general for two matrices,
$$(A+B)^{n} \neq {}^{n}C_{0}A^{n} + {}^{n}C_{1}A^{n-1}B + {}^{n}C_{2} A^{n-2}B^{2} + \dots + {}^{n}C_{n-1}AB^{n-1} + {}^{n}C_{n} B^{n}$$

However, *if A and B commute,*
$$(A+B)^{2} = A^{2} + B^{2} + 2AB$$
$$(A+B)(A-B) = A^{2} - B^{2}$$
$$(A+B)^{n} = {}^{n}C_{0}A^{n} + {}^{n}C_{1}A^{n-1}B + {}^{n}C_{2} A^{n-2}B^{2} + \dots + {}^{n}C_{n-1}AB^{n-1} + {}^{n}C_{n} B^{n}$$
and all other formula are valid. 

If one of the matrices is I,
$$(A+I)^{2} = A^{2} + 2A + I$$
$$(A+I)^{3} = A^{3} + 3A^{2} + 3A + I$$
$$(A+I)^{n} = {}^{n}C_{0}A^{n} + {}^{n}C_{1}A^{n-1} + {}^{n}C_{2} A^{n-2} + \dots + {}^{n}C_{n-1}A + {}^{n}C_{n} I$$
